Appendix A – Business Context 
Type 1 - Stakeholders 
There are two identifiable groups of stakeholders that can be differentiated from when attempting to develop a stakeholder map. 
Internal Stakeholders (Primary) 
External Stakeholders (Secondary) 
Type 1a: Internal Stakeholders (Primary) 
There are usually commonly identifiable internal stakeholders that are seen within a business, these stakeholders are the users that will directly use or interact with the solution on a near regular basis. These users can be seen as usage group of the system, the users that are directly involved with the solution due to their usage of it. 
These may include: 
Visitors (Non-Registered Users) 
Staff 
Owners 
Customers (Registered Users) 
Local Community 
Development Team 
Administration Team 
Maintenance Team 
Design Team 
Type 1b: External Stakeholders (Secondary) 
External Stakeholders do not directly involve themselves with the solution but will still influence it or interact with it indirectly, these groups do not impact the solution but still may have some influence regarding how it is run. 
These may include: 
Government 
Media 
External Partners 
Hosting Company 
Auditors 
General Public 
Type 2 – Constraints 
When developing a solution, it is essential to understand and address: the time required, total budget, technology needed and legal considerations 
Type 2a – Time Required 
It is important to understand the amount of time required to develop a project; it can help develop a clear timeline and expectations regarding where the project should be depending on how far along the timeline it is predicted to be. Developing a timeline is a great tool when developing any project whether it is physical or digital, it creates clear urgency and helps to encourage developers to complete the project within the set timescale.  
Type 2b – Total Budget 
Setting a clear overall budget is essential in a project such as this, it sets clear boundaries and expectations between management and the development team and ensures that it is fair for both parties, a budget will help to ensure that the project is staying on track and remaining in a profitable margin when it has been complete. 
Type 2c – Technology Needed 
Addressing the required technology when designing a solution is important to ensure that the development team has the required tools to incorporate the expected standards that management has set, in addition to this it enables for the solution to function at the level at which is expected of it. 
Type 2d – Legal Considerations 
Digital projects require organisations to follow several legal guidelines to ensure that they are taking the expected measures to protect their customers from harm, it is important to follow the set legislation to ensure that the company is not affected by any of the consequences of not following the outlined requirements. Legislation such as the Data Protection Act and GDPR should all be considered when designing a digital solution. 
Type 3 – Empathy Mapping 
An empathy map is a “...visual framework that helps designers and teams gain a deeper understanding of their users by immersing themselves in the users’ perspectives, thoughts, feelings and behaviours”. Empathy maps are an essential tool for helping to understand the experiences that a user may have within the solution and help with further developments depending on the expected outcome of users when using the solution.  
Empathy Maps are differentiated by four distinct categories: 
Says: (User statements – stated declarations, quotations and catchphrases) 
Thinks: (User thoughts and considerations, understanding user’s hopes, concerns and expectations is essential to achieve this) 
Feels: (User’s feelings and emotions) 
Does: (User actions and behaviours) 
Type 4 – SWOT Analysis 
A SWOT analysis is a technique used to identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats for a specified project or even a business, it is a powerful tool to create opportunities for improvement and help to stay ahead of current market trends. A SWOT analysis will illustrate the framework and what is needed to get to the next step. 
There are four distinct categories within a SWOT analysis, Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats, each act to measure the performance of a project and help provide a scope of the project. 
Type 4a – Strengths 
Strengths refer to what is performing well within the project or essentially, the positives of the solution that you have designed, through examining this area you can understand what is already working as expected or above the set expectation. 
Some key considerations to address strengths are: 
What is going well 
What is unique about the project 
How is this better than competitors 
Each consideration aims to address a different point of the overall project, examining each will help provide a clear determination of what the strengths are of the solution that you have designed. 
Type 4b – Weaknesses 
Weaknesses are essentially the opposite of Strengths, it is what is going wrong within or to simply put it, the negatives of the solution you have designed. There will always be downsides within a project, and it is essential to address these as early as possible to ensure that the solution is performing at its expected standard with as minimal issues as possible. Overall, it will create a baseline for success and failure due to a starting point being discovered. 
Some key considerations to address weaknesses are: 
How do we rank against competitors 
What can be improved 
Are complaints present 
By asking these questions, you can indicate the downsides of the solution and begin to expand and develop on them to design a solution that is as efficient and effective as possible. 
Type 4c – Opportunities 
Opportunities expand on your existing strengths and weaknesses; an opportunity can differentiate from weaknesses that you wish to improve or areas that weren’t identified when initially conducting the analysis, within a SWOT analysis, opportunities act as a clear indication on what can be improved or what can be achieved because of the success or downsides of the project.  
Some key considerations to address opportunities are:  
What do competitors offer 
Are there any gaps within our services 
How can our weaknesses be improved 
These questions will give a clear answer to the opportunities of the project and allow you to further develop your solution because of these opportunities. 
Type 4d – Threats 
Threats within SWOT Analysis’ are areas that have the potential to cause problems, they are different from weaknesses due to being external and not within our control. A threat can span from a global pandemic to an outage within the systems and all impact how the solution will perform.  
Some key considerations to address threats are: 
Where are our competitors outperforming us 
What are the new market trends  
What changes in the industry should we be worried about 
Threats pose as a significant problem for any project, identifying them and attempting to prevent or stay ahead of them is essential for your solution to perform correctly. 
Type 5 – User Personas/Stories 
User personas are a powerful tool to create a fictional representation of your target customer, they are backed up by research and actual data and includes detailed information about goals, needs, behaviours and pain points. It helps businesses understand their audience better through thinking like their audience. User personas are essential in design and helps to guide development and user strategies. 
Layout: “As (name), I want to… (what they want to do) 
Example: “As Jake, I want to begin using renewable energy and start using green technology”  
 
Appendix B – Functional and Non-Functional Requirements 
Type 1 – Functional Requirements 
Functional requirements are an important part of a project, they define the ‘specific features and operations a system must perform to meet the business and user needs. Essentially, a functional requirement describes what the system should do and how it should interact with users or other system. When analysing the functional requirements of a project, it is important to consider how the system works and the features it has, this will help give a clear idea of what the system’s functionality is and allow you to clearly define the functional requirements of the system. 
Type 2 – Non-Functional Requirements 
Non-functional requirements define how a system should operate, they focus on the backend of the system and what it should do to benefit the users, there are three main concerns when addressing non-functional requirements, these being: performance, reliability and user experience. Non-functional requirements ensure that the system is efficient, secure and maintainable over time, without them the system would not be able to function. 
Key Ideas of Non-Functional Requirements: 
Performance (speed and responsiveness) 
Security (protection against unauthorised access) 
Usability (ease of use) 
Reliability (system stability and availability) 
Scalability (ability to handle growth) 
Maintainability (ease of updates and fixes) 
Portability (ability to run in different environments) 
Appendix C – Problem Decomposition 
Type 1 – Problem Decomposition 
Problem decomposition is the breaking down of problems into smaller problems, to achieve this you must identify the challenges and dependencies to explain how it works at a simplified level. It is needed because a problem needs to be divided into different tasks and then mapped for a processor to complete the action, in this case the processor can be a person who may not have knowledge of this sector but still needs to understand what is happening and how it will happen. 
Example: 
Brushing Your Teeth: 
Get the toothpaste 
Get your toothbrush 
Wet your toothbrush 
Apply toothpaste 
Put toothpaste back 
Brush your teeth in a circular pattern for 2 minutes 
Spit out the watered-down toothpaste 
Rinse out your mouth 
Rinse your toothbrush 
Put your toothbrush back 
 
Appendix D – Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
Type 1 – Key Performance Indicators 
A key performance indicator (KPI) is a defined measurement used to assess a company’s performance over a long period of time, organisations can use KPIs to track their progress on key business objectives and help it to achieve its stated objectives and goals. They measure the company's success against a set of targets, objectives or industry peers and aim to measure the operational performance across the organisation, KPIs are an essential tool to track the general performance of a company over an extended period of time and helps to assess how the company is performing against their competitors. 
Example: 
The site response time is <2s, this allows for efficient navigation across the site and improving the user experience by minimising time lost between pages and inputs, this efficiency maximises business and allows the company to bring in further profit because of this. This compares well against other companies due to slower times being seen across their site, whilst their systems are still functional and up to date, we gain an edge by focusing further on user experience across the site. 
  
 
 
 
 
Links: 
Empathy Mapping, Green Technology 
SWOT Analysis 
User Personas 
Functional & Non-Functional Requirements 
Problem Decomposition 
Key Performance Indicators 
